Content creation for multi-instance Argo CD feature (#89312)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/proc_configuring-annotation-based-tracking-in-multiple-argo-cd-instances.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-annotation-based-tracking-in-multiple-argo-cd-instances_{context}"]
= Configuring annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances

You can configure annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances.

.Pre-requisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator on your {OCP} cluster.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.

> . Click *Create ArgoCD* to create two Argo CD instances using the following YAML snippet.

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-instance-demo-1 # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-1 # <2>
spec:
  installationID: "instance-demo-1" # <3>
  resourceTrackingMethod: "annotation+label"
----
<1> Specifies the name of the first Argo CD instance.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the first Argo CD instance.
<3> Specifies the name of the `installationID` for the first Argo CD instance.
+
.Example second Argo CD instance with an annotation label
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-instance-demo-2 # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-2 # <2>
spec:
  installationID: "instance-demo-2" # <3>
  resourceTrackingMethod: "annotation+label"
----
+
<1> Specifies the name of the second Argo CD instance.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the second Argo CD instance.
<3> Specifies the name of the `installationID` for the second Argo CD instance.
+
. Configure and label target namespaces to associate namespaces with their Argo CD instances.
.. Navigate to *Administration* -> *Namespaces*.
.. Create namespaces for application deployments, `app-ns-1` and `app-ns-2`.

> .. To associate each namespace with their respective Argo CD instances, run the following commands:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc label namespace app-ns-1 argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by=argocd-test-demo-1
> ----
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc label namespace app-ns-2 argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by=argocd-test-demo-2
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Associate each namespace with their respective Argo CD instance:

... Associate the `app-ns-1` namespace with the `argocd-test-demo-1` Argo CD instance by running the following command: 
+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace app-ns-1 argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by=argocd-test-demo-1
----

... Associate the `app-ns-2` namespace with the `argocd-test-demo-2` Argo CD instance by running the following command: 
+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace app-ns-2 argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by=argocd-test-demo-2
----
```

We tend to have an instruction for every command. Avoid consecutive commands without instructions. 

You could also do this by using place holders but i'm not familiar enough. 
The above change would work fine. Just make sure it renders fine.

Author: Fixed.

+
. Create two applications in Argo CD.

> .. In the OpenShift Web Console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *OpenShift GitOps Operator*.

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-annotation-based-tracking-in-multiple-argo-cd-instances_{context}"]
= Configuring annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances

You can configure annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances.

[NOTE]
====
This procedure uses the following example values:

> * `repoURL: https://github.com/redhat-developer/gitops-operator`
> * `server: https://kubernetes.default.svc`

Reviewer 2: slight format change for an example URL:
```suggestion
* `repoURL`: `\https://github.com/redhat-developer/gitops-operator`
* `server`: `\https://kubernetes.default.svc`
```

Author: Fixed.

    path: test/examples/nginx
    targetRevision: HEAD
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: app-ns-1
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
----
<1> Specifies the name of the first application.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the first application.
+
.Example second application using Argo CD
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: sprint-petclinic # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-2 # <2>
spec:
  project: default
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/redhat-developer/gitops-operator
    path: test/examples/nginx
    targetRevision: HEAD
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: app-ns-2
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
----
<1> Specifies the name of the second application that is created with the same name as the first application.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the second application.

.Verification
. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Pods* in the {OCP} web console.
. Ensure that the pods for Argo CD instances `argocd-instance-demo-1` and `argocd-instance-demo-2` are running.
. Check the application synchronization status in the *Argo CD Applications* YAML tab.

> . Navigate to the `argocd-cm` config map in `argocd-test-demo-1` and `argocd-test-demo-2` namespaces and verify that the `installationID`object is configured successfully.

Reviewer 2: Tiny typo here impacting the HTML presentation:
```suggestion
. Navigate to the `argocd-cm` config map in `argocd-test-demo-1` and `argocd-test-demo-2` namespaces and verify that the `installationID` object is configured successfully.
```

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-annotation-based-tracking-in-multiple-argo-cd-instances_{context}"]
= Configuring annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances

> You can configure annotation-based tracking in multiple Argo CD instances.

Reviewer 2: Since this proc uses example values instead of user-replaced values, it might be good to call out what the examples will be up front (to avoid users just copying these verbatim into their UI)

Author: Could you elaborate and provide an example for this comment?

.Pre-requisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator on your {OCP} cluster.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

> . Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

Author: Fixed.

> . Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

Reviewer 2: This cahnge isn't in the current version here

> . Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

Author: Hey @jeana-redhat, this is a change from a different PR made while rebasing the content. The change is just a suggestion to improve the grammar, so I don't think it should be of much concern.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.

> . Click *Create ArgoCD* to create two Argo CD instances by using the following YAML snippet.

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example first Argo CD instance with an annotation label
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-instance-demo-1 # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-1 # <2>
spec:
  installationID: "instance-demo-1" # <3>
  resourceTrackingMethod: "annotation+label"
----
<1> Specifies the name of the first Argo CD instance.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the first Argo CD instance.

> <3> Specifies the name of the `installationID` object for the first Argo CD instance.

Reviewer 2: Is this a "parameter" rather than an "object"? (if so, change in each instance)

Author: It is safe to stick to an object because the previous reviewer stated it is an object. Also, I did a little reading online and it is stated that the object can be passed as parameters too.

+
.Example second Argo CD instance with an annotation label
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-instance-demo-2 # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-2 # <2>
spec:
  installationID: "instance-demo-2" # <3>
  resourceTrackingMethod: "annotation+label"
----
+
<1> Specifies the name of the second Argo CD instance.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the second Argo CD instance.
<3> Specifies the name of the `installationID` object for the second Argo CD instance.

> +

Reviewer 2: Is this right? hard to tell w/o a good preview.
```suggestion

```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: sprint-petclinic # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-1 # <2>
spec:
  project: default
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/redhat-developer/gitops-operator
    path: test/examples/nginx
    targetRevision: HEAD
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: app-ns-1
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
----
<1> Specifies the name of the first application.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the first application.
+
.Example second application using Argo CD
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: sprint-petclinic # <1>
  namespace: argocd-test-demo-2 # <2>
spec:
  project: default
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/redhat-developer/gitops-operator
    path: test/examples/nginx
    targetRevision: HEAD
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: app-ns-2
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
----
<1> Specifies the name of the second application that is created with the same name as the first application.
<2> Specifies the namespace used for the second application.

> . Next, verify the deployment of each application in the {OCP} web console.
> .. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Pods*.
> .. Ensure that the pods for Argo CD instances, `argocd-instance-demo-1` and `argocd-instance-demo-2` are running.
> .. Check the application synchronization status in the *Argo CD Applications* YAML tab or by using the CLI.
> +
> If you are using the CLI, run the following command to view the output:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc get app -n <namespace>
> ----
> +
> .Example output
> ----
> NAME               SYNC STATUS   HEALTH STATUS
> spring-petclinic   Synced        Healthy
> ----
> .. Navigate to the `argocd-cm` config map in `argocd-test-demo-1` and `argocd-test-demo-2` namespaces and verify that the `installationID`object is configured successfully.

Reviewer 2: This is a great set of verification steps, you can use that heading type :)

This process is in the web console, I don't see a benefit to providing the CLI step here.

```suggestion
.Verification

. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Pods* in the {OCP} web console.
. Ensure that the pods for Argo CD instances `argocd-instance-demo-1` and `argocd-instance-demo-2` are running.
. Check the application synchronization status in the *Argo CD Applications* YAML tab.
. Navigate to the `argocd-cm` config map in `argocd-test-demo-1` and `argocd-test-demo-2` namespaces and verify that the `installationID`object is configured successfully.
```

Author: Fixed.
